well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about an
analogy
and economics and rising tides and all
of that
and the working class i love analogies i
use them all the time
but in order for them to be effective
well they have to make sense
they have to be accurate and the
components in the analogy
they have to be readily identifiable
if those things aren't true the analogy
is bad
what's even worse is it it may lead to a
false understanding
the vice president recently said that
something along the lines of a
rising tide raises all ships the idea
being
that if the economy is doing well
particularly in this case he's talking
about the stock market
then well everybody goes up
and i mean that sounds good and it's
based on a spurious correlation
the idea that because over the last
hundred years the standard of living or
whatever has gone up across the board
well that has to do with you know
the stock market going up except the
standard of living
across the board has gone up since the
beginning of time that's just
human civilization that that has nothing
to do with the stock market
so this concept
it would hold true if it was a good
analogy it would hold true
if the stock market is doing better
everybody's ship would
go up everybody would be doing better
now it can be an imperfect analogy and
sure the rich vote could go up more
than the working class but that's not
what's happening
the reality is is that the rich folk
have their ships going up and everybody
else is going down
eight million people recently fell into
poverty
doesn't sound like a rising tide to me
sounds like people are going underwater
but i actually think it's a good analogy
as long as the components mean things
other than what the vice president meant
the reality is that most americans do
not own a ship they do not own a boat
they do not own a yacht
that they get tax breaks on most
americans are in the water
in fact if you want to make the analogy
more
accurate the working class of america
is the water you know the place where
those yachts are resting
what keeps them afloat that makes more
sense
and the reality is historically when the
working class goes up
so do the rich folk see the analogy
works that way
but what has been happening recently is
that
the ships are going up without the tide
because well they have senators in the
pocket
and those senators send out a crane to
artificially lift them
up the funny thing about that is when
that happens
well the boat's not in the water as much
which means it's not displacing as much
water which means the water level
actually goes down the working class
goes down this kind of explains the
income inequality gap
if that crane continues eventually
that boat is all the way out of the
water and into dry dock
doesn't have any uh money in the game so
to speak
so it is not displacing water the water
level goes down
and that boat is just locked away in
some screws mcduckin vault never to be
seen again
that's what's happening because these
companies have these senators in their
pocket
you want to raise the tide you have to
raise the working class
the stimulus yeah it's got to start at
the bottom
that's who needs it the most because
they're going to spend it there's
actually a concept
in economics about this it's called
velocity
they're going to use that money faster
it is going to be moved around
faster it is going to be worth more than
just sitting
on the deck on a boat
that's in dry dock not being used
this country is has a widening gap
between the haves and the have-nots
and the bigger that gap gets the higher
the government
raises those boats artificially
the worse it's going to be
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day